Add metrics content (#56)
ConsenSys/doc.rollups: docs/HowTo/Monitoring.md

---
description: Monitor Rollups
---

# Monitor ConsenSys Rollups

You can use ConsenSys Rollups with [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) time-series database to record API usage metrics.
You can visualize the recorded data using an existing dashboard tool such as [Grafana](https://grafana.com/).

## Record API metrics

> ConsenSys Rollups can record the following usage metrics for each request routed through its Handlers:

Reviewer: To be precise this metric shows how much time it took to decode request and store it mempool. 
Actual account creation or money order operation can take longer, because it depends on how soon batch will be filled, processed and submitted to blockchain.

But this is relevant for engine, probably manager counts whole time it took for request to be finalized. @jpnovais @Filter94  could you please confirm it?

* Account creation
* Requests targeting an account
* Money order requests
* Outbound transfers
* Transfer requests received
* Transfer requests failed

ConsenSys Rollups also records metrics about the blockchain:

* Time to deserialize call data
* Time to deserialize inbound transfer data
* Time to deserialize outbound transfer data
* Time to validate a blockchain transaction batch
* Time to execute forced and standard transaction
* Time to fetch events from blockchain for the Connector

You can store these metrics in a Prometheus time-series database for further analysis.

> Prometheus integrates well with the open source dashboard editor [Grafana](#grafana) to allow for easy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prometheus integrates with the open source dashboard editor [Grafana](#grafana) that allows
```

### Prometheus

The [Prometheus documentation](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview/) provides information to set up
Prometheus to integrate with ConsenSys Rollups.
The [Prometheus first steps](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/first_steps/) is a good starting point.
A summary of the steps to store ConsenSys Rollups metrics in a Prometheus database is as follows:

1. Install Prometheus.
2. Create a `prometheus.yml` configuration file to pull metrics from ConsenSys Rollups.
   For example, add the following YAML fragment to the `scrape_configs` block of the `prometheus.yml` file:

    !!! example "Example configuration"

        ```yml
        global:
          scrape_interval: 15s
        scrape_configs:
          - job_name: "prometheus"
            static_configs:
            - targets: ["localhost:9090"]
          - job_name: "rollups"
            scrape_timeout: 10s
            metrics_path: /metrics
            scheme: http
            static_configs:
            - targets: ["localhost:6012"]
        ```

3. Start ConsenSys Rollups.
4. Start Prometheus:

    ```bash
    prometheus --config.file=prometheus.yml
    ```

> 5. To view data stored in the database, access the Prometheus UI (by default `localhost:9090`, this address can be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. To view data stored in the database, access the Prometheus UI (by default [`localhost:9090`](http://localhost:9090), this address can be
```

   changed in `prometheus.yml`) and use the [Prometheus Query Language](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/basics/).

### Grafana

Grafana can be used to create dashboards from data stored in Prometheus databases.
See the [Grafana documentation](https://grafana.com/docs) and [Grafana Getting Started](https://grafana.com/docs/guides/getting_started) for details on how to set up a Grafana instance and integrate it with databases.
A summary of the steps is as follows:

> 1. [Install and start Grafana](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation) as described for your OS (if using the default configuration, Grafana will start on port 3000 and require login/password admin/admin to access the dashboard).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [Install and start Grafana](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation) as described for your OS (if using the default configuration, Grafana will start on port 3000 and require a login and password (defaults are `admin` and `admin`) to access the dashboard).
```

> 2. Create a data source to provide the necessary details to connect to the database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Create a data source to connect to the database.
```

3. Create a new dashboard.

> 4. Add panels to the dashboard. Panels are the graphs, tables, and statistics that make up a dashboard. The New Panel wizard allows the components of the panel to be configured:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Add panels to the dashboard. Panels are the graphs, tables, and statistics that make up a dashboard. The "New Panel" wizard allows the components of the panel to be configured:
```
